docs: adding content for module 3 (#9)
asyncapi/learning-paths: 100-level-AsyncAPI-Intro/step2.md

As Eve and Chan begin building a communication system using AsyncAPI inside Chan's spaceship control room, Chan asks Eve if there is a standardised way of defining the communication system or if she defines the communication systems differently based on the particular use case.

Eve replies that AsyncAPI has a standardised way to define communication systems. 

Eve tells Chan that the communication system is defined using an AsyncAPI document in a specific structure with certain elements or components on the root level. And that the asyncAPI document structure remains the same for different types of use cases. 

As it is much easier to understand things in action, Eve explains each component of an asyncAPI document to Chan as they program each part.

## Deep Dive into Various Components of AsyncAPI

--> Mahfuza's content regarding various components of AsyncAPI document<--

## Request/reply 
As Eve and Chan almost finish setting up the communication system, Eve explains to Chan about Request/reply pattern, which is not a component but a common communication pattern. 

> Eve explains Chan that this is a type of communication pattern where there are two components, a requestor and a replier. 

Reviewer: Just to avoid confusion with AsyncAPI components, I suggest we use a different word. Actor might work, but feel free to use a better one if you find it. 

```suggestion
Eve explains Chan that this is a type of communication pattern where there are two actors, a requestor and a replier. 
```

As Eve and Chan begin building a communication system using AsyncAPI inside Chan's spaceship control room, Chan asks Eve if there is a standardized way of defining the communication system or if she defines the communication systems differently based on the particular use case.

Eve replies that AsyncAPI has a standardized way of defining communication systems. She explains to Chan that the communication system is defined using a specific structure within an AsyncAPI document. As it is much easier to understand things in action, Eve shows Chan how to structure components in an AsyncAPI document.

## Understanding AsyncAPI components 

- **Info**

Just as the name tag on Chan's spaceship provides essential details like the spaceship's name and model, the `info` section in AsyncAPI serves a similar purpose. It provides crucial information about the API, such as the title, version, and description. The `info` metadata helps developers understand the basic API details they're working with.

```yml
asyncapi: '3.0.0'
info:
  title: Space Communication API
  version: '1.0.0'
  description: API for communication between Chan's spaceship and Capuccinova
```

- **Servers**

> Imagine that Chan's spaceship communicates with Eve on Capuccinova through various servers. In AsyncAPI, the `servers` section describes the servers our API will communicate with, including their hosts, protocols, and descriptions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imagine that Chan's spaceship communicates with Eve on Capuccinova through various servers.  In AsyncAPI, the `servers` section serves to describe both the servers that the application of the API communicates with and the servers that the application itself exposes, such as a websocket interface or HTTP Rest.
```

```yml
servers:
  production:
    host: mqtt://localhost
    protocol: mqtt
    description: Production server for space communication
```

- **Channels**

The spaceship's radio stations, which correspond to specific topics like communicating with Capuccinova, are similar to the `channels` in AsyncAPI. These channels represent paths for sending specific types of messages. Each channel uses an address, which is a template for the URL of the server, and can have parameters inside curly braces that can be replaced dynamically at runtime.

```yml
channels:
  chatRoom:

>     address: chat/{roomId}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    address: chat
```

    messages:
      chatMessage:
        name: ChatMessage
        payload:
          type: object
          properties:
            userId:
              type: string
              description: The ID of the user who sent the message
            message:
              type: string
              description: The chat message
            spacename:
              type: string
              description: The unique spacename identifier for the message
```

> - **Tags**
> 
> `Tags` in AsyncAPI are like the labels on the spaceship's control panel. They help categorize different operations, making it easier to understand what each part of the API does. Each tag consists of a name and an optional description.
> 
> ```yml
> tags:
>   - name: chat
>     description: Operations related to chat
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> - **Components**
> 
> `Component` is like the toolbox in Chan's spaceship. It contains reusable parts like message definitions and schemas that can be used across the API. Each component is linked to a particular schema, which describes the structure of the message content.
> 
> ```yml
> components:
>   messages:
>     ChatMessage:
>       name: ChatMessage
>       title: Chat Message
>       contentType: application/json
>       payload:
>         $ref: '#/components/schemas/ChatMessagePayload'
>   schemas:
>     ChatMessagePayload:
>       type: object
>       properties:
>         userId:
>           type: string
>           description: The ID of the user who sent the message
>         message:
>           type: string
>           description: The chat message
> ```
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Operations, messages, and schemas

- **Operations**

`Operations` in AsyncAPI are like the instructions for the spaceship. They define what actions can be performed within each channel, such as sending or receiving messages. Each operation is associated with a channel and its messages.

```yml
operations:
  sendChatMessage:
    action: 'send'
    summary: Send a chat message to a specific room
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/roomidchat'
```

- **Messages**

`Messages` in AsyncAPI are the content exchanged during operations, just like the words Eve from Capuccinova and Chan from Brownieterra use to communicate. They describe the structure and content of the messages sent or received.

```yml
components:
  messages:
    ChatMessage:

>       name: ChatMessage
>       title: Chat Message

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      contentType: application/json
      payload:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/ChatMessagePayload'
```

- **Schemas**

> `Schemas` in AsyncAPI are like the blueprints for the spaceship. They define the structure of the message content, ensuring that everything fits together correctly. Each schema is associated with a component and describes the structure and content of the messages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Schemas` in AsyncAPI are like the blueprints for the spaceship. They allows the definition of input and output data types.
```

```yml
components:
  schemas:
    ChatMessagePayload:
      type: object
      properties:
        userId:
          type: string
          description: The ID of the user who sent the message
        message:
          type: string
          description: The chat message
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Components**

`Component` is like the toolbox in Chan's spaceship. It contains a set of reusable objects for different aspects of the AsyncAPI specification. All objects defined within the components object will have no effect on the API unless they are explicitly referenced from properties outside the components object.

```yml
components:
  messages:
    ChatMessage:
      name: ChatMessage
      title: Chat Message
      contentType: application/json
      payload:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/ChatMessagePayload'
  schemas:
    ChatMessagePayload:
      type: object
      properties:
        userId:
          type: string
          description: The ID of the user who sent the message
        message:
          type: string
          description: The chat message
```

```

As Eve and Chan begin building a communication system using AsyncAPI inside Chan's spaceship control room, Chan asks Eve if there is a standardized way of defining the communication system or if she defines the communication systems differently based on the particular use case.

> Eve replies that AsyncAPI has a standardized way of defining communication systems. She explains to Chan that the communication system is defined using the specific structure within an AsyncAPI document. As it is much easier to understand things in action, Eve shows Chan how to structure components in an AsyncAPI document.

Reviewer: Unless there is an explanation of what is "the specific structure" we mention here, I think the following change is needed:

```suggestion
Eve replies that AsyncAPI has a standardized way of defining communication systems. She explains to Chan that the communication system is defined using a specific structure within an AsyncAPI document. As it is much easier to understand things in action, Eve shows Chan how to structure components in an AsyncAPI document.
```

As Eve and Chan begin building a communication system using AsyncAPI inside Chan's spaceship control room, Chan asks Eve if there is a standardized way of defining the communication system or if she defines the communication systems differently based on the particular use case.

Eve replies that AsyncAPI has a standardized way of defining communication systems. She explains to Chan that the communication system is defined using a specific structure within an AsyncAPI document. As it is much easier to understand things in action, Eve shows Chan how to structure components in an AsyncAPI document.

## Understanding AsyncAPI components 

- **Info**

Just as the name tag on Chan's spaceship provides essential details like the spaceship's name and model, the `info` section in AsyncAPI serves a similar purpose. It provides crucial information about the API, such as the title, version, and description. The `info` metadata helps developers understand the basic API details they're working with.

```yml
asyncapi: '3.0.0'
info:
  title: Space Communication API
  version: '1.0.0'
  description: API for communication between Chan's spaceship and Capuccinova
```

- **Servers**

> Imagine that Chan's spaceship communicates with Eve on Capuccinova through various servers. In AsyncAPI, the `servers` section describes the servers our API will communicate with, including their hosts, protocols, and descriptions.

Reviewer: AsyncAPI Servers can be either servers **the application of the** API communicates with and also servers the application itself exposes (like a websocket interface, HTTP Rest, etc).

```yml
servers:
  production:
    host: mqtt://localhost
    protocol: mqtt
    description: Production server for space communication
```

- **Channels**

> The spaceship's radio stations, which correspond to specific topics like communicating with Capuccinova, are similar to the `channels` in AsyncAPI. These channels represent paths for sending specific types of messages. Each channel uses an address, which is a template for the URL of the server, and can have variables inside curly braces.

Reviewer: >  Each channel uses an address, which is a template for the URL of the server

It is not a template. you can read the description of what the channel's address is at https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0#channelObject

> The spaceship's radio stations, which correspond to specific topics like communicating with Capuccinova, are similar to the `channels` in AsyncAPI. These channels represent paths for sending specific types of messages. Each channel uses an address, which is a template for the URL of the server, and can have variables inside curly braces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The spaceship's radio stations, which correspond to specific topics like communicating with Capuccinova, are similar to the `channels` in AsyncAPI. These channels represent paths for sending specific types of messages. Each channel uses an address, which is a template for the URL of the server, and can have parameters inside curly braces that can be replaced dynamically at runtime.
```

Just to clarify the purpose of those parameters?

```yml
channels:

>   roomidchat:

Reviewer: Nitpick: I believe the following could be a better name because it seems simpler and more readable to the users:

```suggestion
  chatRoom:
```

If you apply this suggestion, please change that in the rest of code examples (like in the operations)

>     address: chat/{roomId}

Reviewer: You are missing the parameters field. Otherwise, remove the `{roomId}.

    messages:

>       chatMessage:

Reviewer: You are describing the message and its payload here. However, in the rest of the examples, both are refered from `components`.
Maybe makes sense to unify those and use references here as well.

cc @alequetzalli

Reviewer 3: thank you for pointing this out, @smoya!

        name: ChatMessage
        payload:
          type: object
          properties:
            userId:
              type: string
              description: The ID of the user who sent the message
            message:
              type: string
              description: The chat message
            spacename:
              type: string
              description: The unique spacename identifier for the message
```

> - **Tags**

Reviewer: I don't think tags are so critical for this learning path topic, so I would remove this section

`Tags` in AsyncAPI are like the labels on the spaceship's control panel. They help categorize different operations, making it easier to understand what each part of the API does. Each tag consists of a name and an optional description.

```yml
tags:
  - name: chat
    description: Operations related to chat
```

> - **Components**

Reviewer: I would suggest Components to be the last in all the objects listings. For example, Messages should be mentioned earlier than components.

> `Component` is like the toolbox in Chan's spaceship. It contains reusable parts like message definitions and schemas that can be used across the API. Each component is linked to a particular schema, which describes the structure of the message content.

Reviewer: > Each component is linked to a particular schema, which describes the structure of the message content.
Comment

This makes no sense to me. Seems like this sentence shouldn't be here 🤔 
Can we please grab the definition of what Components are from our docs? https://www.asyncapi.com/docs/reference/specification/v3.0.0#componentsObject 

I understand we want everything as simple as possible here, but we should always get the base from our docs.

```yml
components:
  messages:
    ChatMessage:
      name: ChatMessage
      title: Chat Message
      contentType: application/json
      payload:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/ChatMessagePayload'
  schemas:
    ChatMessagePayload:
      type: object
      properties:
        userId:
          type: string
          description: The ID of the user who sent the message
        message:
          type: string
          description: The chat message
```

## Operations, messages, and schemas

- **Operations**

> `Operations` in AsyncAPI are like the instructions for the spaceship. They define what actions can be performed within each channel, such as sending or receiving messages. Each operation is associated with a message and a schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Operations` in AsyncAPI are like the instructions for the spaceship. They define what actions can be performed within each channel, such as sending or receiving messages. Each operation is associated with a channel and its messages.
```

```yml
operations:
  sendChatMessage:
    action: 'send'
    summary: Send a chat message to a specific room
    channel:
      $ref: '#/channels/roomidchat'
```

- **Messages**

`Messages` in AsyncAPI are the content exchanged during operations, just like the words Eve from Capuccinova and Chan from Brownieterra use to communicate. They describe the structure and content of the messages sent or received.

```yml
components:
  messages:
    ChatMessage:
      name: ChatMessage

>       title: Chat Message

Reviewer: A bit redundant. If you don't add any extra info, just remove

      contentType: application/json
      payload:
        $ref: '#/components/schemas/ChatMessagePayload'
```

- **Schemas**

> `Schemas` in AsyncAPI are like the blueprints for the spaceship. They define the structure of the message content, ensuring that everything fits together correctly. Each schema is associated with a component and describes the structure and content of the messages.

Reviewer: > Each schema is associated with a component and describes the structure and content of the messages.

Similar to https://github.com/asyncapi/learning-paths/pull/9/files#r1494486979. No so much sense.

```yml
components:
  schemas:
    ChatMessagePayload:
      type: object
      properties:
        userId:
          type: string
          description: The ID of the user who sent the message
        message:
          type: string
          description: The chat message
```

Now it's time to help Chan establish a sophisticated communication system with Eve on Capuccinova. With your new expertise in AsyncAPI, you'll assist him in creating an AsyncAPI document from scratch.

#### Exercise 1: Create an AsyncAPI document

1. In the KillerCoda terminal, create a new file by typing `nano chan-to-capuccinova.yaml`.

2. Enter the following AsyncAPI document structure:
   ```yaml
   asyncapi: 3.0.0
   info:
     title: Space Communication API
     version: '1.0.0'

>      description: API for communication between Chan's spaceship and Capuccinova

Reviewer: Nitpick: 
```suggestion
     description: API for a communication application between Chan's spaceship and Capuccinova
```

   servers:
     production:

>        host: mqtt://localhost

Reviewer: Default MQTT (unencrypted) port is 1883.
Additionally, you don't need to specify the protocol in the host since it is already present in the `protocol` field
```suggestion
       host: localhost:1883
```

       protocol: mqtt
       description: Production server for space communication

   channels:
     roomidchat:
       address: chat/{roomId}
       messages:
         chatMessage:
           name: ChatMessage
           payload:
             type: object
             properties:
               userId:
                 type: string
                 description: The ID of the user who sent the message
               message:
                 type: string
                 description: The chat message
               spacename:
                 type: string
                 description: The unique spacename identifier for the message

   operations:
     sendChatMessage:

>        action: 'send'

Reviewer: If you are defining the API for the Chat application, this should be receive, since the chat app will be the one receiving the messages.

```suggestion
       action: 'receive'
```

Change should be propagated within the name of this operation and summary

Additionally, each client (Eve and Chan) will have it's own AsyncAPI document file where they will have a very very similar document as this one but with `send` operations. Maybe worth to mention.

       summary: Send a chat message to a specific room
       channel:
         $ref: '#/channels/roomidchat'
   ```

#### Exercise 2: Add new channel and define operations**

> After successfully laying the groundwork for communication with Capuccinova, Chan is eager to extend his AsyncAPI document to include a channel for Brownieterra. 

Reviewer: > Chan is eager to extend his AsyncAPI document to include a channel for Brownieterra.

But wasn't the purpose of the previous exercise to establish communication between both parties? I'm a bit confused now.

I'm gonna stop at this point and not review the rest of the doc until this is clarified.

Author: Exercises are now moved to Module 4, so disregard them. Sorry for the confusion :)

> As Eve and Chan begin building a communication system using AsyncAPI inside Chan's spaceship control room, Chan asks Eve if there is a standardised way of defining the communication system or if she defines the communication systems differently based on the particular use case.
> 
> Eve replies that AsyncAPI has a standardised way to define communication systems. 
> 
> Eve tells Chan that the communication system is defined using an AsyncAPI document in a specific structure with certain elements or components on the root level. And that the asyncAPI document structure remains the same for different types of use cases. 
> 
> As it is much easier to understand things in action, Eve explains each component of an asyncAPI document to Chan as they program each part.
> 
> ## Deep Dive into Various Components of AsyncAPI

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As Eve and Chan begin building a communication system using AsyncAPI inside Chan's spaceship control room, Chan asks Eve if there is a standardized way of defining the communication system or if she defines the communication systems differently based on the particular use case.

Eve replies that AsyncAPI has a standardized way of defining communication systems. She explains to Chan that the communication system is defined using the specific structure within an AsyncAPI document. As it is much easier to understand things in action, Eve shows Chan how to structure components in an AsyncAPI document.

```
